Nene;Nene goose;Branta sandvicensis;Endemic;Ponds;inhabitant of shrubland, grassland, coastal dunes, and lava plains, and related anthropogenic habitats such as pasture and golf courses from sea level to as much as 2,4000m (7,9000ft); nene.jpg; nene_2.jpg; nene_3.jpg;Endangered;Adult males have a black head and hindneck, buff cheeks and heavily furrowed neck.[12] The neck has black and white diagonal stripes.[12] Aside from being smaller, the female Nene is similar to the male in colouration.
Hawaiian Duck;Koloa Maoli;Anas wyvilliana;Endemic;Ponds;Found on Kauai and Big Island, marshes, ponds, lakes; hawaiian_duck2.jpg; hawaiian_duck_2.jpg; hawaiian_duck_3.jpg;Endangered;medium-sized duck, similar to female Mallard in appearance, but smaller and darker. Males lack the green head and curled black tail feathers of male Mallards. Both sexes have spotted tail feathers. The bill is dark greenish, with an orange tip in some females.
Mallard;Mallard;Anas platyrhynchos;Invader;Ponds;common and widespread duck species, can be found across the Hawaiian Islands. ; mallard.jpg; mallard_2.jpg; mallard_3.jpg;Least concern;vibrant green head, yellow bill, and intricate feather patterns, the Mallard adds a splash of color to various Hawaiian habitats.
Hawaiian Coot;alae ke'oke'o;Fulica Alai;Endemic;Ponds;natural habitats are freshwater lakes, freshwater marshes, coastal saline lagoons, and water storage areas.; coot.jpg; coot.jpg; coot.jpg;Endangered;black body and white beak and forehead stand out as they coast along the water. Occasionally, some will have a reddish forehead and dark peak. 
Fulvous Whistling Duck;Fulvous whistling duck;Dendrocygna bicolor;Introduced;Ponds;freshwater wetlands, few in numbers relatively rare; fulvous.jpg; fulvous_2.jpg; fulvous_3.jpg;Least concern;mix of rich caramel-brown and black, a long-legged and long-necked creature found in warm freshwater marshes
Laysan Duck;Laysan teal;Anas laysanensis;Endemic;Ponds;only on Laysan, once widespread; laysan.jpg; laysan_2.jpg; laysan_3.jpg;Endangered;teal-sized and dark brown, with a prominent white eye-ring. The bill is short and spatulate, dark green with variable black blotching in males, and dull orange with variable black blotching in females
Muscovy;Muscovy duck;airina moschata;Domesticated;Ponds;Domesticated stock living near ponds ; muscovy.jpg; muscovy_2.jpg; muscovy_3.jpg;Least concern;predominantly black and white, with the back feathers being iridescent and glossy in males, while the females are more drab.
